sections/02-the-resume.md, before:

## The Resume

Your resume is a reflection of you and you need to be comfortable with it. Take advice from others but remember that it is your resume. So, now here’s my advice!

### Some general tips

- Keep the resume relatively short. It should be 2 or 3 pages in length
- Make your resume easy to read and pleasing to look at. If it's cluttered and hard to read it gives the impression that you cannot communicate effectively. Include white space to make it more pleasing to read.
- Make sure there are no spelling mistakes. I have seen about 25% of resumes contain spelling or grammatical errors. This is unacceptable.
- If you submit a Microsoft Word file, make sure that it is not zoomed to 150% or 50%
- Have a text version and a PDF version of your resume on hand in case you are asked for one
- In Microsoft Word, go into “File” then “Properties” and make sure your name is in there and not someone else’s!
- Name your resume file as follows: firstname_lastname.doc and not "resume.doc" or "firstname.doc". For example “Bernie Jansen.doc”
- Be careful in the use of “I have knowledge of” since it usually means that you have no experience but you realize that it is important. If this is the case, it probably doesn't belong on your resume.

### The first page is the most important

The first page is the most important so make sure it grabs the reader’s attention. Include a tag-line at the top of the resume that summarizes your unique selling points. Sometimes this is called your personal brand statement. Customize this for each position that you apply to since it’s the first thing the hiring manager reads.

### Ask for help

Ask friends or ex-colleagues that are successful at getting jobs for copies of their resumes and then pick the best features of each. Also, ask someone who has hired people to review your resume.

There are a number of companies that provide resume writing services. A friend highly recommends this person: www.aneliteresume.com as a resume writer and he attended one of his workshops. He had “the best advice of any I've seen including the expensive outplacement firms” that large organizations use.

### Check the change tracking

Do not send a resume with comments in it or Microsoft Word’s change tracking and  revision history. Make sure to use Tools / Track changes and then “Accept all changes in document” before sending it out! Here is an example of a resume of someone who forgot to do this. When I opened it I saw someone’s comment “Grammar mistakes are not acceptable”! 

### Functional resumes rarely work

Providing a list of technical skills and a list of companies where you worked with no linkage between the two makes the resume reviewer guess. This can be very frustrating and you don’t want people guessing.

Don't just provide a link to your Web site
Providing a link to your personal Web site where your resume is located gives the impression that you do not have the time to send your resume. At least in the high-tech industry, most people have a personal Web site so this will not impress the hiring manager.

On the other hand, if you are in media design or GUI development then you should include links to your online portfolio inside your resume or cover letter. For software developers this could include links to object models or sample source code. This is based on the assumption that you have the legal rights to show the material.

I have seen some candidates bring in confidential and proprietary documentation from a previous supplier. Those were very short interviews. Another approach is to show publicly available marketing material on projects or products you have worked on.
Be careful about personal photos and the interests shown on your Web site or blog. These may actually reduce your chance of getting the interview if the hiring manager actually has the time to visit your Web site. On the other hand, being transparent can be a plus.

Know your resume and take inventory
You need to really know what is written in your resume. Most often a resume is updated for each job search you do. If you are a contractor you may update your resume every year. If you work in full time jobs you may update your resume every several years which means you may start to forget what you did 5 or 10 years ago.

Take the time to read and re-read your resume. After doing this, take an inventory of your skills and experience. Many companies will ask you to complete a profile on their recruiting system and ask specifically for your top skills and the number of years of experience in each. Having gone through the exercise and reflection will make sure you are ready.

Make sure that you can answer a question about any item on your resume or on any technical skill you list.

Commit message:

added Previous and Next links on each page

sections/02-the-resume.md, after:

## The Resume

Your resume is a reflection of you and you need to be comfortable with it. Take advice from others but remember that it is your resume. So, now here’s my advice!

### Some general tips

- Keep the resume relatively short. If you can fit it on 1 page great, 2 is ok, 3 becomes a bit long
- Make your resume easy to read and pleasing to look at. If it's cluttered and hard to read it gives the impression that you cannot communicate effectively. Include white space to make it more pleasing to read.
- Make sure there are no spelling mistakes. I have seen about 25% of resumes contain spelling or grammatical errors. This is unacceptable.
- If you submit a Microsoft Word file, make sure that it is not zoomed to 150% or 50%
- Have a text version and a PDF version of your resume on hand in case you are asked for one
- In Microsoft Word, go into “File” then “Properties” and make sure your name is in there and not someone else’s!
- Name your resume file as follows: firstname_lastname.doc and not "resume.doc" or "firstname.doc". For example “Bernie Jansen.doc”
- Be careful in the use of “I have knowledge of” since it usually means that you have no experience but you realize that it is important. If this is the case, it probably doesn't belong on your resume.

### The first page is the most important

The first page is the most important so make sure it grabs the reader’s attention. Include a tag-line at the top of the resume that summarizes your unique selling points. Sometimes this is called your personal brand statement. Customize this for each position that you apply to since it’s the first thing the hiring manager reads.

### Ask for help

Ask friends or ex-colleagues that are successful at getting jobs for copies of their resumes and then pick the best features of each. Also, ask someone who has hired people to review your resume.

There are a number of companies that provide resume writing services. A friend highly recommends this person: www.aneliteresume.com as a resume writer and he attended one of his workshops. He had “the best advice of any I've seen including the expensive outplacement firms” that large organizations use.

### Check the change tracking

Do not send a resume with comments in it or Microsoft Word’s change tracking and  revision history. Make sure to use Tools / Track changes and then “Accept all changes in document” before sending it out! Here is an example of a resume of someone who forgot to do this. When I opened it I saw someone’s comment “Grammar mistakes are not acceptable”! 

### Functional resumes rarely work

Providing a list of technical skills and a list of companies where you worked with no linkage between the two makes the resume reviewer guess. This can be very frustrating and you don’t want people guessing.

Don't just provide a link to your Web site
Providing a link to your personal Web site where your resume is located gives the impression that you do not have the time to send your resume. At least in the high-tech industry, most people have a personal Web site so this will not impress the hiring manager.

On the other hand, if you are in media design or app development, include links to your online portfolio inside your resume or cover letter. For software developers this could include links to object models or sample source code. This is based on the assumption that you have the legal rights to show the material.

I have seen some candidates bring in confidential and proprietary documentation from a previous supplier. Those were very short interviews. Another approach is to show publicly available marketing material on projects or products that you worked on.
Be careful about personal photos and the interests shown on your Web site or blog. These may actually reduce your chance of getting the interview if the hiring manager actually has the time to visit your Web site. On the other hand, being transparent can be a plus.

Know your resume and take inventory
You need to really know what is written in your resume. Most often a resume is updated for each job search you do. If you are a contractor you may update your resume every year. If you work in full time jobs you may update your resume every several years which means you may start to forget what you did 5 or 10 years ago.

Take the time to read and re-read your resume. After doing this, take an inventory of your skills and experience. Many companies will ask you to complete a profile on their recruiting system and ask specifically for your top skills and the number of years of experience in each. Having gone through the exercise and reflection will make sure you are ready.

Make sure that you can answer a question about any item on your resume or on any technical skill you list.

---

Back: [Introduction](1-introduction.md) | Next:[The Search](03-the-search.md)
